# Evolution

The network will launch with PoA consensus \(Aura\) and continue with this mechanism until the development team is ready to integrate the [Nominated Proof of Stake \(NPoS\)](https://research.web3.foundation/en/latest/polkadot/NPoS.html). It is estimated that this will take about 6 months. NPoS is implemented in Substrate and is being improved on an ongoing basis. Dock network governance will evolve similarly with a Master for the first 2-4 months after launch which will, in agreement with the council, make all decisions in the network including validator set changes, configuration changes, source code upgrades, treasury withdrawals, etc. This will give Dock sufficient time to discover and rectify critical issues that may arise in the mainnet, enable the council to iterate towards on-chain governance, select the technical committee as well as start the token migration from Ethereum to Dock chain. 

For the remaining duration of the PoA phase, the council will use on-chain governance to propose and vote for actions as the Master is phased out. Unlike the PoS phase, there will be only one queue for proposals, via the Council only. Additionally, the Council members will be elected off-line and not by voting by token holders, although as we note below this will change to a more democratic process over time. The Master will still be active in the network but will take a backseat and only carry out actions that are very urgent, such as hotfixes and removing bad validators. The Master can also veto any accepted proposals. More details about PoA governance are available [here](gov-poa/).

In the PoS phase, the Master role is disabled after ~8M blocks \(about three months\) and removed in the next source code upgrade. Network governance will now function with two queues, one for proposals by the Council and one for proposals from token holders, and proposal selection will alternate between both queues. New Councilors will be elected by the token holders or the Council and existing Council members will continue their 2-year tenure and can be extended. More details about PoS governance are available [here](gov-pos.md).

