# PoA-2

The most significant change in this phase is the introduction of democracy. The changes to the network like validator set changes, approving source code upgrades, etc. that were done by the Master in PoA-1 are carried out through ever-increasing democracy during this phase. For example, any token holder or a member of the Council can propose a change but instead of token holders voting, only the Council members can vote. A token holder not a member of the Council must lock 10K tokens to make a proposal. The lockup amount is only used to prevent spam and does not impact the acceptance or rejection of the proposal, and is returned to the proposer once the proposal has been considered. 

There is only one proposal queue in PoA-2 \(this increases to two in the PoS phase\) and every 20 days, a proposal is considered and the Council will vote on the proposal. The voting lasts for 15 days and the members can vote aye \(yes\), nay \(no\) or abstain from voting. All votes carry equal weighting. If a proposal is accepted, it is _enacted_, meaning it takes effect in 2 days. However, the technical committee can fast-track the enactment it urgent cases. In addition, the Master can cancel any accepted proposal and can unilaterally make changes to the network like in PoA-1 but the association will limit this as much as possible as democratic process is clearly the favoured approach. 

The current and past proposals \(with results\) will be listed on Dock's website to be visible to anyone. Any Dock token holder will be able to make a new proposal from Dock's hosted [Polkadot-js apps UI](https://github.com/polkadot-js/apps).

