# Becoming a validator

### Overview

To become a validator in the PoA testnet, the candidate must submit a short application form, available [here](https://accounts.google.com/ServiceLogin?service=wise&passive=1209600&continue=https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSc_jjdscJCF9l8hyYnsIa45_EDQ22zk9jiVQiTZI7THb8ozWw/viewform?pli%3D1&followup=https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSc_jjdscJCF9l8hyYnsIa45_EDQ22zk9jiVQiTZI7THb8ozWw/viewform?pli%3D1&ltmpl=forms). Dock will reach out to the applicant and then decide whether to accept or reject the application. If the application is accepted, the candiate will submit another form with its blockchain address and validator keys. If the application is rejected, it will be communicated with the candidate. 

The validator can run a few different kinds of setups, such as having a single node as a validator. This single node can serve many purposes, such as; block production, serving client requests, acting as a bootstrap node, but it does not need to perform those functions. It can also run an additional sentry node for DoS protection. It might use that sentry node for serving clients or it might run a separate node for serving clients. We advise that running two machines, one for validator and one for sentry is sufficient for the current state of the network. The sentry can optionally be used to be a bootstrap node or serve client requests.

### Application

To become a PoA validator, the validator will submits this Google form \(FORM LINK NEEDED\) specifying its details for KYV \(Know Your Validator\). These include name, email, location, 1 or more social profiles and an ID proof which will vary depending on the location \(MORE DETAILS NEEDED\). If accepted, you will receive an confirmation email and need to provide more details in a Google form \(FORM LINK NEEDED\). The details are: an account address for receiving rewards block rewards, an Aura public key, a Grandpa public key, a libp2p id and the hostname or IP and the port where the node \(validator or sentry\) will be hosted. In case a validator with sentry node is being run, the libp2p id of the sentry node must be shared. These can be generated by running the script `gen_keys_poa_validator` \(LINK TO THE SCRIPT SECTION\). The script will randomly generate an account and both keys.

